---
date: 2016-11-10
publishDate: 2016-11-10
title: Security Audit by Cure53
icon: shield-check
---

Password managers like Padlock are different from most other applications in
that they deal with personal and sensitive data and therefore require a
significant level of trust from their users and have to be held to a much
higher standard when it comes to security and privacy. We believe that the best
foundation for trust is transparency which is one of the reasons why we're so
strongly committed to the idea of Open Source. We greatly appreciate the faith
our users put into our intentions and skills but we we also want to encourage
people to be sceptical and to be able to convince themselves of the security
and integrity of our application.

However, while it is theoretically possible for anyone to inspect our source
code, only very few people actually have the knowledge and experience required
to assess the security of an application. This is why we're happy to announce
that we've been working with the [Open Technology
Fund](https://www.opentech.fund/) and the security experts at
[cure53](https://cure53.de/) to identify and eliminate possible vulnerabilities
and further strengthen the security of the app! Earlier this year, Mario
Heiderich and his team performed a full penetration test on Padlock for iOS,
Android and Google Chrome as well as the online storage service Padlock Cloud.
During their tests, they managed to identify a series of non-critical but
important security vulnerabilities and risks which we've since been able to
fix. The full report is available for download
[here](/docs/padlock-pentest-1604.pdf). Our notes on the report outlining the
concrete steps taken to mitigate the identified issues can be found
[here](/pentest-1604-notes/).

Our sincerest thanks to the [Open Technology Fund](https://www.opentech.fund/),
who generously funded the test and to the [cure53](https://cure53.de/) team,
who it's been a pleasure to work with!
