---
title: Padlock v1.0 Released
date: 2016-09-04T11:40:17+02:00
publishdate: 2016-09-04
---

We're pleased to announce that **Padlock v1.0 has been released**! This is the
biggest release yet, and apart from the usual bug fixes and polish we have a
couple of neat additions for you (see below)! Most the changes, though, have
been "under the hood" and even though they are not directly visible to most
users they will bring great improvements in stability, reliability and
security. Security, of course, has always been our main priority when building
Padlock and we're happy to tell you that we have been working with the
[Open Technology Fund](https://www.opentech.fund/) and the security experts at
[cure53](https://cure53.de/) to identify and eliminate possible vulnerabilities
and further strengthen the security of the app! We'll be releasing the full
report soon so stay tuned!

{{% note %}}
**Important:** Along with the Padlock app, we have also made some significant
changes to the Padlock Cloud service. As a result, **older version of the Padlock
app will no longer work with Padlock Cloud**! See our [announcement](#) for
details.
{{% /note %}}

## Auto Lock

Previously the iOS and Android versions of the app would lock instantly the
moment you put the app in the background.  This proved to be a major
inconvenience for many users since you had to re-enter your master password
every time you switched apps in order to copy/paste user names and passwords
into webpages or other applications. On the other hand, the desktop app did not
have any form of auto-locking at all. With the latest release, both mobile and
desktop apps now automatically detect they haven't received any input from the
user in a while and **will automatically lock after a configurable period of
inactivity**. This not only means that your data will be safe in case you forget
to close the app on your computer or phone - copying and pasting will now also
be a lot easier since the app will no longer lock instantly the moment you
switch to another app.

## Improved Padlock Cloud Pairing Process

We have put a lot of working into making pairing your devices with Padlock
Cloud easier and more intuitive. At the same time, we have added features to
make the process more secure and give you more control over your data.

## Custom Padlock Cloud Server

For the power users among you **Padlock now supports pairing with your own,
custom Padlock Cloud server**! Openness and transparency have always been a major
part of our philosophy and even though we make sure that your data never leaves
your devices unencrypted, we understand if some people don't want to upload
their data to a server they don't control. If you want to learn more about how
you can spin up your own Padlock Cloud instance, head over to
[Padlock Cloud on Github](https://github.com/maklesoft/padlock-cloud)!

We hope you'll like the new version! If you have any feedback, questions or
concerns, feel free to [shoot us an email](mailto:support@padlock.io)!
